Introduction

Pollution is a term of which even kids are aware of these days, it has become so common that almost everyone. The fact is that pollution is rising continuously. The word pollution refers to the introduction of chemical particulates in the atmosphere.

And biological methods that can be harmful to humans, plants, and animals and cause damage to the natural environment.

When we talk about the pollution on earth over the increasing pollution on earth, we refer to the contamination, which is happening of the natural resources by various pollutants; this is caused by human activities that harm the environment in multiple ways.

Effects of Pollution

Pollution affects the quality of life more than one can imagine; it works in mysterious ways. Sometimes which cannot be seen by the next I, however, it is very much present in the environment; for instance, you might not be able to see the natural gas is present in the air.

But they are still there similarly the patterns which are messing up the air and increasing the level of carbon dioxide is very dangerous for humans increased the level of carbon dioxide will lead to global warming.

For that water is polluted in the name of industrial development religious practices and more will cause a shortage of drinking water without human water life is not possible on the way waste is dumped on the land eventually and in the soil.

And that turns toxic land pollution keeps on happening at this rate we won’t have fertile soil to grow crops on them; therefore serious measures must be taken to reduce pollution to the core.

Generally, there are three types of pollution :

Air pollution
Water pollution
Soil pollution
Causes and Effect of Different Types of Pollution

Air pollution, which is one of the most dangerous forms of pollution a biological chemical and physical alteration of the Year, occurs when smoke dust and any harmful gases enter into the atmosphere pop art and make it difficult for all living beings to survive. As the air becomes contaminated.

Burning of fossil fuels agriculture-related activities mining operations exhaust from industries and factories, and household cleaning products entail air pollution.

Daily, people releasing enormous or vast amounts of chemical substances in the air, the effect of air pollution is too alarming.

Because it causes global warming, acid rains, respiratory and heart problems, and eutrophication lot of wildlife species are forced to change their habitat to survive or get stone-dead or extinct.

Soil pollution occurs when the presence of pollutant contaminants and toxic chemicals in the soil is in high concentration that harms wildlife, plants, humans, and groundwater.

Industrial activity is like waste disposal agricultural activity is acid rain, and the accidental oil spill is the leading cause of soil pollution this type of contamination influences health of humans affect the growth of plant decrease soil fertility and change the soil structure.

Water pollution can lead our world on the Path of destruction water is one of the most significant natural resources of the whole of humanity; nothing or nobody will be able to live without water.

However, we do not appreciate the gift of nature and pollute it without thinking the critical cause of water pollution are industrial waste, mining activities, sewage and wastewater, accidental oil leakage, marine dumping, chemical pesticides, and fertilizers burning of fossil fuels, animal waste.

Urban Development global warming radioactive waste and leakage from sewer lines. There is only one percent water left on Earth for drinking purposes, and if we keep polluting it, there will be much less availability of water for drinking cooking irrigation crops and washing.

Another kind of pollution which is not added to the types of pollution but it is also a significant point where pollution is affecting Light Pollution.

Light pollution, which is also known as water pollution or Luminous pollution, is the exclusive misdirected for invasive use of artificial outdoor lighting miss manage light alters the colors and contrast of the night time.

Sky ellipse natural starlight and disturbs circadian rhythms( the 24-hour process of most organisms), which affect the environment energy resource wildlife-human and astronomy research.

The threat of Light Pollution continued to grow as the demand for Artificial light increases each year.

And it is not also new cinema over the last 50 years as countries became affluent and urbanized demand for outdoor lighting increased and Light Pollution from old beyond the city limits and into suburban and rural areas of this form of pollution.

It is now prevalent in Asia, Europe, and North America, particularly in cities like Los Angeles, New York, and Washington DC in 2008 National Geographic magazine named Chicago the most light-polluted city in the United States.

How to Reduce Pollution?

After learning the harmful effect of pollution, one must get on task to prevent or reduce pollution as soon as possible to minimize air pollution people should take public transport or Carpool to reduce weight color smoke while it may be hard working firecrackers at festivals and celebrations.

It can also cut down on air and noise pollution above all we must adopt the habit of recycling all the used plastic and sub in the ocean and land which pollutes them.

So remember not to dispose of them off after use weather reuses them as long as you can, we must also encourage everyone to plant more trees which will absorb the harmful gases and make the air cleaner.

When talking on a more significant level, the government must limit the use of fertilizers to mountain the soil fertility also Industries must be banned from dumping their waste into Oceans and rivers, causing water pollution.

All types of pollution are hazardous and come with Grave consequences; everyone must take a step towards change ranking from individuals to the industry as checking this problem calls for a joint effort, so we must join hands now; moreover, the Innocent life of animals is being lost.

Because of such human activities and in the long-term they may affect human beings to all of us must take a stand and become a voice for the unheard to make this earth pollution-free.

Solution for the Pollution Problem

Environmental pollution has negatively affected the lives of both animals and human beings; the only way to control the current environmental issue is to implementation of conservation methods and create sustainable development strategies.

We should find some effective solutions to restore our ecological balance, first of all, we should make sustainable transportation choices we should walk or ride bikes to take advantage of public transport whenever it is possible.

Consolidate our trips and consider purchasing an electric car which will be eco-friendly choose local food whenever possible buy organically grown vegetables and fruits grow your own.

Conserve water as much as possible dispose of toxic waste properly do not use herbicides and pesticides use natural environmental friendly chemicals for your everyday chores.

People should conserve energy turn off electronics and lights when they are not in use. Consider what this small change can lead to significant energy-saving use energy-efficient devices.

It is also essential to understand the concept of reducing, reuse, and recycle. Try to buy used items whenever possible, choose products with minimal packaging by reusable items remember that almost everything that you purchase can be recycled.

Conclusion

With the rise of Technology, we are saying a massive surge in pollution. Sometimes we are the leading cause. Still, it is never too late to prevent something we can start today by preventing environmental pollution from creating a greener India and greener world as a whole.

We should always remember that the pollution problem affects us all, so each of us has to do his or her best to help story ecological balance to this beautiful place which we call home.

Learn about the major polluters in your area to protect the air and water where you live and please people to stop pollution tell them everything you know about the local politics together the masses should be educated on the dangers of different types of pollution

People should know everything about all consequences of environmental pollution to prevent the worst from happening let’s protect that water we drink the air we breathe and the soil we use to grow our food.

As in India, Delhi is the most polluted city in the 2019 air of Delhi is highly contaminated and can damage the lungs of all living there.